# Arithmetic Algorithm #

Arithmetic encoding is a lossless compression algorithm that replaces an input stream of symbols or bytes with a single fixed point output number. Our implementation uses 16 bit integer math to simplify the code (like the code given in the appendix C), this means that instead of looking for a float value between 0.0 and 1.0 we are looking for an integer value between 0 and 0xFFFF.

Initially all symbols being encoded have a probability value assigned to them based on the likelihood that the symbol will occur next in the input stream (i.e. the frequency of the symbol in the input stream). In our implementation this is stored in the occCount variable of an entry of the probabilistic table. The `lookupEntryByCumCount()` method of the class `Int32ProbCtxtTable` is able to give the symbol associated to a given code.

The decoding algorithm is not complex, mainly we deal with an integer interval with a low and high values. Each symbol is associated with a part of this interval, the size of the part is directly linked to the frequency of this symbol. The code is read from the stream to decode, it should be a number in the interval. From this code we can get the associated symbol. Given some formulas you can find in the specification the low and high values are modified and a new code is read from the stream. As the implementation is dealing with integer intervals the code is a bit more complex from the theory but again, the implementation follows the code given in the Appendix C of the specification. The `decode()` method deals with the loop that will find each symbol,
the `lookupEntryByCumCount()` method returns a symbol associated with a code and the `removeSymbolFromStream()` method is responsible for getting the next code to evaluate.